# The Mokka Programming Language Specification

## Introduction
This is a reference manual for the Mokka programming language.

## Source file representation
Mokka source files use the file extension ".mok".

## Source code representation
Mokka source code is Unicode text encoded in UTF-8. The text is not canonicalized. This document will use the unqualified term "character" to refer to a Unicode code point in the source text.

Every code point is entirely distinct. Upper and lower case letters are treated as different characters.

### Characters
The following terms are used to denote specific Unicode character classes:

```
newline           = /* a newline character, Unicode code point U+000A */
unicode_character = /* any arbitrary Unicode character that is not a newline */
unicode_letter    = /* any arbitrary Unicode code point classified as "Letter" */
unicode_digit     = /* any arbitrary Unicode code point clssified as "Number, decimal digit" */
```

## Lexical analysis
A Mokka program is read by a parser. Input to this parser is a stream of tokens, generated by a lexical analyzer. This chapter explains how the lexical analyzer breaks a Mokka file into tokens.

### Logical lines
The end of a logical line is represented by a newline. A statement must not cross logical line boundaries, except where newlines are allowe4d by the grammar. A logical line is constructed from one or more physical lines following the explicit and implicit line joining rules.

### Physical lines
A physical line is a sequesce of Unicode characters terminated by an end-of-line sequence. Any standard line termination sequence suffices - the Unix form using ASCII linefeed, the Windows form using ASCII sequence return followed by linefeed, or the Macintosh form using the ASCII return character. These forms can be used equally, regardless of platform, but must be used consistently throughout a Mokka program.

### Comments
A single-line comment starts with a hash (`#`) character and ends at the end of the physical line. Comments are ignored by the compiler. Multi-line comments are not supported by the syntax.
